---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Technical Essay 3
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-02-14
labels:
---

Technical Essay - E3

Invoice1 WOD was one of the more simple WODs that we had to do. basically the instructions were to display the same table that we were given but change out all the hard code into variables, full instructions can be found here: https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-preparing-for-WOD.html. Before doing this wod I had just finished doing Lab5 which greatly prepared me to do this WOD. Before attempting to record myself I took a look at the instructions and tried to figure out the changes that I needed to make and found it to be super simple. The part that gave me a bit of a struggle was inserting the table that we needed to use. But after a couple of minutes after reflecting on what I had experienced in the past, I remembered that in one of our classes Prof. Port had us inspect a page and take a table from the code used, so I did the same for this WOD. So in terms of preparing for this WOD I think the last Lab, Lab5, helped greatly. Everything we did in that lab we did in this WOD so it really helped practicing with Prof. Port before doing it myself. One thing I can improve on is my narration while coding. It is hard to articulate what I am thinking, even when I am trying to learn, understand, and put these puzzle pieces together. So next time I will try to narrate as much as I can but, at the end give a brief summary of what was done for the WOD. One advice I can give for completing WODs is to take time and think about the questions and how to solve them. After that try to solve them through VS code. After a few tries you should get the idea and then you can record your session.

