---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Technical Essay 4
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-04-04
labels:
---

Technical Essay - E4

<p>My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:</p>
After completing assignment1 I can confidently say that my programming skills have improved. One skill that I noticed from the beginning is just understanding what each line of code does. How each code is a piece in the puzzle and I can identify what the pieces are and where. Each WOD Helped me understand the concept better as well. The way I approach problems have also improved, being able to think about problems in code has been helpful in the work we do.
<p>I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:</p>
I need to work more on learning things on my own and trying to figure out ways around problems that we didn't learn in class. Another big issue I encountered was trying to fully understand the server.js side of programming. 
I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:
I never got why the WODS were so important until I had to do assignment1 on my own. While working on assignment1, I started remembering what we had done in wods and labs that I can use in my code. But I think doing the wods without the screencast wouldn't have helped me as much because for me to learn, I need to watch how to do it then do it myself. Once I have done that, I can look back and remember how I solved a certain problem.
The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:
The labs are challenging because it is a new concept and trying to figure it out on my own is tough. Doing them in class helps me understand it, just not on my own.
I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:
I did learn a lot from assignment1 and I am confident in my skills that i have acquired to start an assignment2.
 
 
 
 
I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:
I think the pace we are going at right now is perfect for my learning because we do  a bit of everything, class labs, do the labs on our own, recording a screencast and explaining what we do in each wod, and big projects like assignment1 that helps me string together topics we have learned and how useful it is.
What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):
I learn the most through the WODs and Labs because it is all hands on and when I get to see how things are done and why, I start to understand it better and I retain the knowledge. 
