---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Assignment3 Retrospective Blog
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-05-11
labels:
---

<b>Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)</b>
  
My store sells alcohol, whiskey, wine, and beer. In each category users are able to choose what type of alcohol they want. There is a limit amount and customers cant exceed that limit. I have included a login, register, and change password feature to personalize it to the user. Customers can add items to the cart and remove them if they want, then proceed to checkout when they are ready. The customer will receive a receipt via email when purchase is complete.
  
<b>Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?</b>
  
Just getting the extra credit was challenging because There were so many problems I needed to fix from my assignment 2 and I met with the professor a lot to help address these issues.
  
<b>Describe what you are most proud of about your system:</b>
  
I’m proud that my site  is actually up and running, just being able to see my work and that it is fully functioning makes me happy. After all the hard work and stress it caused it's great to see a fully functioning website.
  
<b>Describe what you are least happy with your system:</b>
  
Least happy with my time management. I spent a lot of time thinking about problems that I couldn't fix and took too long contacting professor port but when I did he would fix my issue in 5 mins as opposed to my 3 hours of thinking about the problem. 
  
<b>How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?</b>
  
This was much tougher than assignment 2 because there were a lot of little features that needed to be added but a lot of them I needed to search up or some guidance from prof port. I approached it a lot differently because I did bad on assignment 2. I needed to work extra hard for this one.
  
<b>When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?</b>
  
I ran the debugger a couple of times or used console.log to see the outputs. Sometimes I would look for answers on w3 schools or contact professor port. There were many times I needed help and having someone like professor port walk me through the thought process and show me different ways to go about it helped  a lot. 
  
<b>Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?</b>
  
Understanding what each line of code does. I could not have finished this with all its little new features without understanding the code. Also office hours with professor port helped a lot in implementing new features or fixing all bugs even the smallest. 
  
<b>Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?</b>
  
I think the only thing that didn't work was trying to implement some of the extra credit. It was tough trying to think through the problem and with all the other work I felt like I had no time to tackle these extra credit opportunities
  
<b>What did you learn from doing this assignment?</b>
  
I learned a lot, most importantly that coding is hard and working with the professor showed me that sometimes we all need to google the solution. Knowing how to fix problems through the internet is very important. I also learned how to read the code and understand it. It is very rewarding when you can look at your piece of work and understand all its little parts that make it work. 
  
<b>If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?</b>
  
I would implement more extra credit, I really needed the extra points but I gave it my all and worked really hard to get the final product out. 
  
<b>Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging</b>
  
a)80

b)15

c)5
  
<b>Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on 
  personalization</b>
  
100% me
I worked on the whole project myself and implemented all the new features and fixed any bugs that would come up.

